 Isn't this a nice time of night to 
walk? I like to smell things and look at things, and sometimes stay up all night, walking, and
watch the sun rise."
They walked on again in silence and finally she said, thoughtfully, "You know, I'm not afraid of
you at all."
He was surprised. "Why should you be?"
"So many people are. Afraid of firemen, I mean. But you're just a man, after all..."
He saw himself in her eyes, suspended in two shining drops of bright water, himself dark and
tiny, in fine detail, the lines about his mouth, everything there, as if her eyes were two
miraculous bits of violet amber that might capture and hold him intact. Her face, turned to him
now, was fragile milk crystal with a soft and constant light in it. It was not the hysterical light of
electricity but-what? But the strangely comfortable and rare and gently flattering light of the
candle. One time, when he was a child, in a power-failure, his mother had found and lit a last
candle and there had been a brief hour of rediscovery, of such illumination that space lost its vast
dimensions and drew comfortably around them, and they, mother and son, alone, transformed,
hoping that the power might not come on again too soon ....
And then Clarisse McClellan said:
"Do you mind if I ask? How long have you worked at being a fireman?"
"Since I was twenty, ten years ago."
"Do you ever read any of the books you bum?"
He laughed. "That's against the law!"
"Oh. Of course."
"It's fine work. Monday bum Millay, Wednesday Whitman, Friday Faulkner, burn 'em to ashes,
then bum the ashes. That's our official slogan."
They walked still further and the girl said, "Is it true that long ago firemen put fires out instead of
going to start them?"
"No. Houses. have always been fireproof, take my word for it."
"Strange. I heard once that a long time ago houses used to burn by accident and they needed
firemen to stop the flames."
He laughed.
She glanced quickly over. "Why are you laughing?"
"I don't know." He started to laugh again and stopped "Why?"
"You laugh when I haven't been funny and you answer right off. You never stop to think what
I've asked you."
He stopped walking, "You are an odd one," he said, looking at her. "Haven't you any respect?"
"I don't mean to be insulting. It's just, I love to watch people too much, I guess."
"Well, doesn't this mean anything to you?" He tapped the numerals 451 stitched on his charcoloured sleeve.
"Yes," she whispered. She increased her pace. "Have you ever watched the jet cars racing on the
boulevards down that way?
"You're changing the subject!"
"I sometimes think drivers don't know what grass is, or flowers, because they never see them
slowly," she said. "If you showed a driver a green blur, Oh yes! he'd say, that's grass! A pink
blur? That's a rose-garden! White blurs are houses. Brown blurs are cows. My uncle drove
slowly on a highway once. He drove forty miles an hour and they jailed him for two days. Isn't
that funny, and sad, too?"
"You think too many things," said Montag, uneasily.
"I rarely watch the 'parlour walls' or go to races or Fun Parks. So I've lots of time for crazy
thoughts, I guess. Have you seen the two-hundred-foot-long billboards in the country beyond
town? Did you know that once billboards were only twenty feet long? But cars started rushing by
so quickly they had to stretch the advertising out so it would last."
"I didn't know that!" Montag laughed abruptly.
"Bet I know something else you don't. There's dew on the grass in the morning."
He suddenly couldn't remember if he had known this or not, and it made him quite irritable.
"And if you look"-she nodded at the sky-"there's a man in the moon."
He hadn't looked for a long time.
They walked the rest of the way in silence, hers thoughtful, his a kind of clenching and
uncomfortable silence in which he shot her accusing glances. When they reached her house all its
lights were blazing.
"What's going on?" Montag had rarely seen that many house lights.
"Oh, just my mother and father and uncle sitting around, talking. It's like being a pedestrian, only
rarer. My uncle was arrested another time-did I tell you?-for being a pedestrian. Oh, we're most
peculiar."
"But what do you talk about?"
She laughed at this. "Good night!" She started up her walk. Then she seemed to remember
something and came back to look at him with wonder and curiosity. "Are you happy?" she said.
"Am I what?" he cried.
But she was gone-running in the moonlight. Her front door shut gently.
"Happy! Of all the nonsense."
He stopped laughing.
He put his hand into the glove-hole of his front door and let it know his touch. The front door
slid open.
Of course I'm happy. What does she think? I'm not? he asked the quiet rooms. He stood looking
up at the ventilator grille in the hall and suddenly remembered that something lay hidden behind
the grille, something that seemed to peer down at him now. He moved his eyes quickly away.
What a strange meeting on a strange night. He remembered nothing like it save one afternoon a
year ago when he had met an old man in the park and they had talked ....
Montag shook his head. He looked at a blank wall. The girl's face was there, really quite
beautiful in memory: astonishing, in fact. She had a very thin face like the dial of a small clock
seen faintly in a dark room in the middle of a night when you waken to see the time and see the
clock telling you the hour and the minute and the second, with a white silence and a glowing, all
certainty and knowing what it has to tell of the night passing swiftly on toward further
darknesses but moving also toward a new sun.
"What?" asked Montag of that other self, the subconscious idiot that ran babbling at times, quite
independent of will, habit, and conscience.
He glanced back at the wall. How like a mirror, too, her face. Impossible; for how many people
did you know that refracted your own light to you? People were more often-he searched for a
simile, found one in his work-torches, blazing away until they whiffed out. How rarely did other
people's faces take of you and throw back to you your own expression, your own innermost
trembling thought?
What incredible power of identification the girl had; she was like the eager watcher of a
marionette show, anticipating each flicker of an eyelid, each gesture of his hand, each flick of a
finger, the moment before it began. How long had they walked together? Three minutes? Five? 