Yet how large that time seemed now. How immense a figure she was on the stage before him;
what a shadow she threw on the wall with her slender body! He felt that if his eye itched, she
might blink. And if the muscles of his jaws stretched imperceptibly, she would yawn long before
he would.
Why, he thought, now that I think of it, she almost seemed to be waiting for me there, in the
street, so damned late at night ... .
He opened the bedroom door.
It was like coming into the cold marbled room of a mausoleum after the moon had set. Complete
darkness, not a hint of the silver world outside, the windows tightly shut, the chamber a tombworld where no sound from the great city could penetrate. The room was not empty.
He listened.
The little mosquito-delicate dancing hum in the air, the electrical murmur of a hidden wasp snug
in its special pink warm nest. The music was almost loud enough so he could follow the tune.
He felt his smile slide away, melt, fold over, and down on itself like a tallow skin, like the stuff
of a fantastic candle burning too long and now collapsing and now blown out. Darkness. He was
not happy. He was not happy. He said the words to himself. He recognized this as the true state
of affairs. He wore his happiness like a mask and the girl had run off across the lawn with the
mask and there was no way of going to knock on her door and ask for it back.
Without turning on the light he imagined how this room would look. His wife stretched on the
bed, uncovered and cold, like a body displayed on the lid of a tomb, her eyes fixed to the ceiling
by invisible threads of steel, immovable. And in her ears the little Seashells, the thimble radios
tamped tight, and an electronic ocean of sound, of music and talk and music and talk coming in,
coming in on the shore of her unsleeping mind. The room was indeed empty. Every night the
waves came in and bore her off on their great tides of sound, floating her, wide-eyed, toward
morning. There had been no night in the last two years that Mildred had not swum that sea, had
not gladly gone down in it for the third time.
The room was cold but nonetheless he felt he could not breathe. He did not wish to open the
curtains and open the french windows, for he did not want the moon to come into the room. So,
with the feeling of a man who will die in the next hour for lack of air,.he felt his way toward his
open, separate, and therefore cold bed.
An instant before his foot hit the object on the floor he knew he would hit such an object. It was
not unlike the feeling he had experienced before turning the corner and almost knocking the girl
down. His foot, sending vibrations ahead, received back echoes of the small barrier across its
path even as the foot swung. His foot kicked. The object gave a dull clink and slid off in
darkness.
He stood very straight and listened to the person on the dark bed in the completely featureless
night. The breath coming out of the nostrils was so faint it stirred only the furthest fringes of life,
a small leaf, a black feather, a single fibre of hair.
He still did not want outside light. He pulled out his igniter, felt the salamander etched on its
silver disc, gave it a flick....
Two moonstones looked up at him in the light of his small hand-held fire; two pale moonstones
buried in a creek of clear water over which the life of the world ran, not touching them.
"Mildred ! "
Her face was like a snow-covered island upon which rain might fall; but it felt no rain; over
which clouds might pass their moving shadows, but she felt no shadow. There was only the
singing of the thimble-wasps in her tamped-shut ears, and her eyes all glass, and breath going in 
and out, softly, faintly, in and out of her nostrils, and her not caring whether it came or went,
went or came.
The object he had sent tumbling with his foot now glinted under the edge of his own bed. The
small crystal bottle of sleeping-tablets which earlier today had been filled with thirty capsules
and which now lay uncapped and empty in the light of the tiny flare.
As he stood there the sky over the house screamed. There was a tremendous ripping sound as if
two giant hands had torn ten thousand miles of black linen down the seam. Montag was cut in
half. He felt his chest chopped down and split apart. The jet-bombs going over, going over, going
over, one two, one two, one two, six of them, nine of them, twelve of them, one and one and one
and another and another and another, did all the screaming for him. He opened his own mouth
and let their shriek come down and out between his bared teeth. The house shook. The flare went
out in his hand. The moonstones vanished. He felt his hand plunge toward the telephone.
The jets were gone. He felt his lips move, brushing the mouthpiece of the phone. "Emergency
hospital." A terrible whisper.
He felt that the stars had been pulverized by the sound of the black jets and that in the morning
the earth would be thought as he stood shivering in the dark, and let his lips go on moving and
moving.
They had this machine. They had two machines, really. One of them slid down into your
stomach like a black cobra down an echoing well looking for all the old water and the old time
gathered there. It drank up the green matter that flowed to the top in a slow boil. Did it drink of
the darkness? Did it suck out all the poisons accumulated with the years? It fed in silence with an
occasional sound of inner suffocation and blind searching. It had an Eye. The impersonal
operator of the machine could, by wearing a special optical helmet, gaze into the soul of the
person whom he was pumping out. What did the Eye see? He did not say. He saw but did not see
what the Eye saw. The entire operation was not unlike the digging of a trench in one's yard. The
woman on the bed was no more than a hard stratum of marble they had reached. Go on, anyway,
shove the bore down, slush up the emptiness, if such a thing could be brought out in the throb of
the suction snake. The operator stood smoking a cigarette. The other machine was working too.
The other machine was operated by an equally impersonal fellow in non-stainable reddish-brown
overalls. This machine pumped all of the blood from the body and replaced it with fresh blood
and serum.
"Got to clean 'em out both ways," said the operator, standing over the silent woman. "No use
getting the stomach if you don't clean the blood. Leave that stuff in the blood and the blood hits
the brain like a mallet, bang, a couple of thousand times and the brain just gives up, just quits."
"Stop it!" said Montag.
"I was just sayin'," said the operator.
"Are you done?" said Montag.
They shut the machines up tight. "We're done." His anger did not even touch them. They stood
with the cigarette smoke curling around their noses and into their eyes without making them
blink or squint. "That's fifty bucks."
"First, why don't you tell me if she'll be all right?"
"Sure, she'll be O.K. We got all the mean stuff right in our suitcase here, it can't get at her now.
As I said, you take out the old and put in the new and you're O.K."
"Neither of you is an M.D. Why didn't they send an M.D. from Emergency?"
"Hell! " the operator's cigarette moved on his lips. "We get these cases nine or ten a night. Got so
many, starting a few years ago, we had the special machines built.