With the optical lens, of 
course, that was new; the rest is ancient. You don't need an M.D., case like this; all you need is
two handymen, clean up the problem in half an hour. Look"-he started for the door-"we gotta go.
Just had another call on the old ear-thimble. Ten blocks from here. Someone else just jumped off
the cap of a pillbox. Call if you need us again. Keep her quiet. We got a contra-sedative in her.
She'll wake up hungry. So long."
And the men with the cigarettes in their straight-lined mouths, the men with the eyes of puffadders, took up their load of machine and tube, their case of liquid melancholy and the slow dark
sludge of nameless stuff, and strolled out the door.
Montag sank down into a chair and looked at this woman. Her eyes were closed now, gently, and
he put out his hand to feel the warmness of breath on his palm.
"Mildred," he said, at last.
There are too many of us, he thought. There are billions of us and that's too many. Nobody
knows anyone. Strangers come and violate you. Strangers come and cut your heart out. Strangers
come and take your blood. Good God, who were those men? I never saw them before in my life!
Half an hour passed.
The bloodstream in this woman was new and it seemed to have done a new thing to her. Her
cheeks were very pink and her lips were very fresh and full of colour and they looked soft and
relaxed. Someone else's blood there. If only someone else's flesh and brain and memory. If only
they could have taken her mind along to the dry-cleaner's and emptied the pockets and steamed
and cleansed it and reblocked it and brought it back in the morning. If only . . .
He got up and put back the curtains and opened the windows wide to let the night air in. It was
two o'clock in the morning. Was it only an hour ago, Clarisse McClellan in the street, and him
coming in, and the dark room and his foot kicking the little crystal bottle? Only an hour, but the
world had melted down and sprung up in a new and colourless form.
Laughter blew across the moon-coloured lawn from the house of Clarisse and her father and
mother and the uncle who smiled so quietly and so earnestly. Above all, their laughter was
relaxed and hearty and not forced in any way, coming from the house that was so brightly lit this
late at night while all the other houses were kept to themselves in darkness. Montag heard the
voices talking, talking, talking, giving, talking, weaving, reweaving their hypnotic web.
Montag moved out through the french windows and crossed the lawn, without even thinking of
it. He stood outside the talking house in the shadows, thinking he might even tap on their door
and whisper, "Let me come in. I won't say anything. I just want to listen. What is it you're
saying?"
But instead he stood there, very cold, his face a mask of ice, listening to a man's voice (the
uncle?) moving along at an easy pace:
"Well, after all, this is the age of the disposable tissue. Blow your nose on a person, wad them,
flush them away, reach for another, blow, wad, flush. Everyone using everyone else's coattails.
How are you supposed to root for the home team when you don't even have a programme or
know the names? For that matter, what colour jerseys are they wearing as they trot out on to the
field?"
Montag moved back to his own house, left the window wide, checked Mildred, tucked the covers
about her carefully, and then lay down with the moonlight on his cheek-bones and on the
frowning ridges in his brow, with the moonlight distilled in each eye to form a silver cataract
there.
One drop of rain. Clarisse. Another drop. Mildred. A third. The uncle. A fourth. The fire tonight.
One, Clarisse. Two, Mildred. Three, uncle. Four, fire, One, Mildred, two, Clarisse. One, two, 
three, four, five, Clarisse, Mildred, uncle, fire, sleeping-tablets, men, disposable tissue, coat-tails,
blow, wad, flush, Clarisse, Mildred, uncle, fire, tablets, tissues, blow, wad, flush. One, two,
three, one, two, three! Rain. The storm. The uncle laughing. Thunder falling downstairs. The
whole world pouring down. The fire gushing up in a volcano. All rushing on down around in a
spouting roar and rivering stream toward morning.
"I don't know anything any more," he said, and let a sleep-lozenge dissolve on his tongue.
At nine in the morning, Mildred's bed was empty.
Montag got up quickly, his heart pumping, and ran down the hall and stopped at the kitchen
door.
Toast popped out of the silver toaster, was seized by a spidery metal hand that drenched it with
melted butter.
Mildred watched the toast delivered to her plate. She had both ears plugged with electronic bees
that were humming the hour away. She looked up suddenly, saw him, and nodded.
"You all right?" he asked.
She was an expert at lip-reading from ten years of apprenticeship at Seashell ear-thimbles. She
nodded again. She set the toaster clicking away at another piece of bread.
Montag sat down.
His wife said, "I don't know why I should be so hungry."
"You-?"
"I'm HUNGRY."
"Last night," he began.
"Didn't sleep well. Feel terrible," she said. "God, I'm hungry. I can't figure it."
"Last night-" he said again.
She watched his lips casually. "What about last night?"
"Don't you remember?"
"What? Did we have a wild party or something? Feel like I've a hangover. God, I'm hungry. Who
was here?"
"A few people," he said.
"That's what I thought." She chewed her toast. "Sore stomach, but I'm hungry as all-get-out.
Hope I didn't do anything foolish at the party."
"No," he said, quietly.
The toaster spidered out a piece of buttered bread for him. He held it in his hand, feeling grateful.
"You don't look so hot yourself," said his wife.
In the late afternoon it rained and the entire world was dark grey. He stood in the hall of his
house, putting on his badge with the orange salamander burning across it. He stood looking up at
the air-conditioning vent in the hall for a long time. His wife in the TV parlour paused long
enough from reading her script to glance up. "Hey," she said. "The man's THINKING!"
"Yes," he said. "I wanted to talk to you." He paused. "You took all the pills in your bottle last
night."
"Oh, I wouldn't do that," she said, surprised.
"The bottle was empty."
"I wouldn't do a thing like that. Why would I do a thing like that?" she asked.
"Maybe you took two pills and forgot and took two more, and forgot again and took two more,
and were so dopy you kept right on until you had thirty or forty of them in you."
"Heck," she said, "what would I want to go and do a silly thing like that for?"
"I don't know," he said. 