"It doesn't think anything we don't want it to think."
"That's sad," said Montag, quietly, "because all we put into it is hunting and finding and killing.
What a shame if that's all it can ever know."'
Beatty snorted, gently. "Hell! It's a fine bit of craftsmanship, a good rifle that can fetch its own
target and guarantees the bull's-eye every time."
"That's why," said Montag. "I wouldn't want to be its next victim.
"Why? You got a guilty conscience about something?"
Montag glanced up swiftly.
Beatty stood there looking at him steadily with his eyes, while his mouth opened and began to
laugh, very softly.
One two three four five six seven days. And as many times he came out of the house and Clarisse
was there somewhere in the world. Once he saw her shaking a walnut tree, once he saw her
sitting on the lawn knitting a blue sweater, three or four times he found a bouquet of late flowers
on his porch, or a handful of chestnuts in a little sack, or some autumn leaves neatly pinned to a
sheet of white paper and thumb-tacked to his door. Every day Clarisse walked him to the corner.
One day it was raining, the next it was clear, the day after that the wind blew strong, and the day
after that it was mild and calm, and the day after that calm day was a day like a furnace of
summer and Clarisse with her face all sunburnt by late afternoon.
"Why is it," he said, one time, at the subway entrance, "I feel I've known you so many years?"
"Because I like you," she said, "and I don't want anything from you. And because we know each
other."
"You make me feel very old and very much like a father."
"Now you explain," she said, "why you haven't any daughters like me, if you love children so
much?"
"I don't know."
"You're joking!"
"I mean-" He stopped and shook his head. "Well, my wife, she . . . she just never wanted any
children at all."
The girl stopped smiling. "I'm sorry. I really, thought you were having fun at my expense. I'm a
fool."
"No, no," he said. "It was a good question. It's been a long time since anyone cared enough to
ask. A good question."
"Let's talk about something else. Have you ever smelled old leaves? Don't they smell like
cinnamon? Here. Smell."
"Why, yes, it is like cinnamon in a way."
She looked at him with her clear dark eyes. "You always seem shocked."
"It's just I haven't had time--"
"Did you look at the stretched-out billboards like I told you?"
"I think so. Yes." He had to laugh.
"Your laugh sounds much nicer than it did"
"Does it?"
"Much more relaxed."
He felt at ease and comfortable. "Why aren't you in school? I see you every day wandering
around."
"Oh, they don't miss me," she said. "I'm anti-social, they say. I don't mix. It's so strange. I'm very
social indeed. It all depends on what you mean by social, doesn't it? Social to me means talking 
about things like this." She rattled some chestnuts that had fallen off the tree in the front yard.
"Or talking about how strange the world is. Being with people is nice. But I don't think it's social
to get a bunch of people together and then not let them talk, do you? An hour of TV class, an
hour of basketball or baseball or running, another hour of transcription history or painting
pictures, and more sports, but do you know, we never ask questions, or at least most don't; they
just run the answers at you, bing, bing, bing, and us sitting there for four more hours of filmteacher. That's not social to me at all. It's a lot of funnels and a lot of water poured down the
spout and out the bottom, and them telling us it's wine when it's not. They run us so ragged by
the end of the day we can't do anything but go to bed or head for a Fun Park to bully people
around, break windowpanes in the Window Smasher place or wreck cars in the Car Wrecker
place with the big steel ball. Or go out in the cars and race on the streets, trying to see how close
you can get to lamp-posts, playing `chicken' and 'knock hub-caps.' I guess I'm everything they
say I am, all right. I haven't any friends. That's supposed to prove I'm abnormal. But everyone I
know is either shouting or dancing around like wild or beating up one another. Do you notice
how people hurt each other nowadays?"
"You sound so very old."
"Sometimes I'm ancient. I'm afraid of children my own age. They kill each other. Did it always
used to be that way? My uncle says no. Six of my friends have been shot in the last year alone.
Ten of them died in car wrecks. I'm afraid of them and they don't like me because I'm afraid. My
uncle says his grandfather remembered when children didn't kill each other. But that was a long
time ago when they had things different. They believed in responsibility, my uncle says. Do you
know, I'm responsible. I was spanked when I needed it, years ago. And I do all the shopping and
house-cleaning by hand.
"But most of all," she said, "I like to watch people. Sometimes I ride the subway all day and look
at them and listen to them. I just want to figure out who they are and what they want and where
they're going. Sometimes I even go to the Fun Parks and ride in the jet cars when they race on
the edge of town at midnight and the police don't care as long as they're insured. As long as
everyone has ten thousand insurance everyone's happy. Sometimes I sneak around and listen in
subways. Or I listen at soda fountains, and do you know what?"
"What?"
"People don't talk about anything."
"Oh, they must!"
"No, not anything. They name a lot of cars or clothes or swimming-pools mostly and say how
swell! But they all say the same things and nobody says anything different from anyone else.
And most of the time in the cafes they have the jokeboxes on and the same jokes most of the
time, or the musical wall lit and all the coloured patterns running up and down, but it's only
colour and all abstract. And at the museums, have you ever been? All abstract. That's all there is
now. My uncle says it was different once. A long time back sometimes pictures said things or
even showed people."
"Your uncle said, your uncle said. Your uncle must be a remarkable man."
"He is. He certainly is. Well, I've got to be going. Goodbye, Mr. Montag."
"Good-bye."
"Good-bye...."
One two three four five six seven days: the firehouse.
"Montag, you shin that pole like a bird up a tree."
Third day.