"Montag, I see you came in the back door this time. The Hound bother you?"
"No, no."
Fourth day.
"Montag, a funny thing. Heard tell this morning. Fireman in Seattle, purposely set a Mechanical
Hound to his own chemical complex and let it loose. What kind of suicide would you call that?"
Five six seven days.
And then, Clarisse was gone. He didn't know what there was about the afternoon, but it was not
seeing her somewhere in the world. The lawn was empty, the trees empty, the street empty, and
while at first he did not even know he missed her or was even looking for her, the fact was that
by the time he reached the subway, there were vague stirrings of un-ease in him. Something was
the matter, his routine had been disturbed. A simple routine, true, established in a short few days,
and yet . . . ? He almost turned back to make the walk again, to give her time to appear. He was
certain if he tried the same route, everything would work out fine. But it was late, and the arrival
of his train put a stop to his plan.
The flutter of cards, motion of hands, of eyelids, the drone of the time-voice in the firehouse
ceiling ". . . one thirty-five. Thursday morning, November 4th,... one thirty-six . . . one thirtyseven a.m... " The tick of the playing-cards on the greasy table-top, all the sounds came to
Montag, behind his closed eyes, behind the barrier he had momentarily erected. He could feel the
firehouse full of glitter and shine and silence, of brass colours, the colours of coins, of gold, of
silver: The unseen men across the table were sighing on their cards, waiting.
". . .one forty-five..." The voice-clock mourned out the cold hour of a cold morning of a still
colder year.
"What's wrong, Montag?"
Montag opened his eyes.
A radio hummed somewhere. ". . . war may be declared any hour. This country stands ready to
defend its--"
The firehouse trembled as a great flight of jet planes whistled a single note across the black
morning sky.
Montag blinked. Beatty was looking at him as if he were a museum statue. At any moment,
Beatty might rise and walk about him, touching, exploring his guilt and self-consciousness.
Guilt? What guilt was that?
"Your play, Montag."
Montag looked at these men whose faces were sunburnt by a thousand real and ten thousand
imaginary fires, whose work flushed their cheeks and fevered their eyes. These men who looked
steadily into their platinum igniter flames as they lit their eternally burning black pipes. They and
their charcoal hair and soot-coloured brows and bluish-ash-smeared cheeks where they had
shaven close; but their heritage showed. Montag started up, his mouth opened. Had he ever seen
a fireman that didn't have black hair, black brows, a fiery face, and a blue-steel shaved but
unshaved look? These men were all mirror-images of himself! Were all firemen picked then for
their looks as well as their proclivities? The colour of cinders and ash about them, and the
continual smell of burning from their pipes. Captain Beatty there, rising in thunderheads of
tobacco smoke. Beatty opening a fresh tobacco packet, crumpling the cellophane into a sound of
fire.
Montag looked at the cards in his own hands. "I-I've been thinking. About the fire last week.
About the man whose library we fixed. What happened to him?"
"They took him screaming off to the asylum" 
"He. wasn't insane."
Beatty arranged his cards quietly. "Any man's insane who thinks he can fool the Government and
us."
"I've tried to imagine," said Montag, "just how it would feel. I mean to have firemen burn our
houses and our books."
"We haven't any books."
"But if we did have some."
"You got some?"
Beatty blinked slowly.
"No." Montag gazed beyond them to the wall with the typed lists of a million forbidden books.
Their names leapt in fire, burning down the years under his axe and his hose which sprayed not
water but kerosene. "No." But in his mind, a cool wind started up and blew out of the ventilator
grille at home, softly, softly, chilling his face. And, again, he saw himself in a green park talking
to an old man, a very old man, and the wind from the park was cold, too.
Montag hesitated, "Was-was it always like this? The firehouse, our work? I mean, well, once
upon a time..."
"Once upon a time!" Beatty said. "What kind of talk is THAT?"
Fool, thought Montag to himself, you'll give it away. At the last fire, a book of fairy tales, he'd
glanced at a single line. "I mean," he said, "in the old days, before homes were completely
fireproofed " Suddenly it seemed a much younger voice was speaking for him. He opened his
mouth and it was Clarisse McClellan saying, "Didn't firemen prevent fires rather than stoke them
up and get them going?"
"That's rich!" Stoneman and Black drew forth their rulebooks, which also contained brief
histories of the Firemen of America, and laid them out where Montag, though long familiar with
them, might read:
"Established, 1790, to burn English-influenced books in the Colonies. First Fireman: Benjamin
Franklin."
RULE 1. Answer the alarm swiftly.
 2. Start the fire swiftly.
 3. Burn everything.
 4. Report back to firehouse immediately.
 5. Stand alert for other alarms.
Everyone watched Montag. He did not move.
The alarm sounded.
The bell in the ceiling kicked itself two hundred times. Suddenly there were four empty chairs.
The cards fell in a flurry of snow. The brass pole shivered. The men were gone.
Montag sat in his chair. Below, the orange dragon coughed into life.
Montag slid down the pole like a man in a dream.
The Mechanical Hound leapt up in its kennel, its eyes all green flame.
"Montag, you forgot your helmet!"
He seized it off the wall behind him, ran, leapt, and they were off, the night wind hammering
about their siren scream and their mighty metal thunder !
It was a flaking three-storey house in the ancient part of the city, a century old if it was a day, but
like all houses it had been given a thin fireproof plastic sheath many years ago, and this
preservative shell seemed to be the only thing holding it in the sky.
"Here we are !" 